.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not
.\" be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
.\" dealing in this Software without prior written authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtAdd-Input XtAdd-TimeOut XtAddWorkProc wid-get
.na
.TH XtAddInput __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XT COMPATIBILITY FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtAddInput, XtAddTimeOut, XtAddWorkProc \- register input, timeout, and workprocs
.SH SYNTAX
#include <X11/Intrinsic.h>
.HP
XtInputId XtAddInput(int \fIsource\fP, XtPointer \fIcondition\fP,
XtInputCallbackProc \fIproc\fP, XtPointer \fIclient_data\fP);
.HP
XtIntervalId XtAddTimeOut(unsigned long \fIinterval\fP, XtTimerCallbackProc 
\fIproc\fP, XtPointer \fIclient_data\fP);
.HP
XtWorkProcId XtAddWorkProc(XtWorkProc \fIproc\fP, XtPointer
\fIclient_data\fP);
.LP
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies the argument that is to be passed to the specified procedure
when input is available
.IP \fIcondition\fP 1i
Specifies the mask that indicates a read, write, or exception condition
or some operating system dependent condition.
.IP \fIproc\fP 1i
Specifies the procedure that is to be called when input is available.
.IP \fIsource\fP 1i
Specifies the source file descriptor on a UNIX-based system
or other operating system dependent device specification.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B XtAddInput
has been replaced by
.B XtAppAddInput.
.LP
.B XtAddTimeOut
has been replaced by
.B XtAppAddTimeOut.
.LP
.B XtAddWorkProc
has been replaced by
.BR XtAppAddWorkProc .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppAddInput(__libmansuffix__), XtAppAddTimeOut(__libmansuffix__), XtAppAddWorkProc(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
