.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
.\" in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
.\" OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealing in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtGet-Selection-Value XtGet-Selection-Values wid-get
.na
.TH XtGetSelectionValue __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtGetSelectionValue, XtGetSelectionValues \- obtain selection values
.SH SYNTAX
#include <X11/Intrinsic.h>
.HP
void XtGetSelectionValue(Widget \fIw\fP,
Atom \fIselection\fP,
Atom \fItarget\fP,
XtSelectionCallbackProc \fIcallback\fP,
XtPointer \fIclient_data\fP, Time \fItime\fP);
.HP
void XtGetSelectionValues(Widget \fIw\fP,
Atom \fIselection\fP,
Atom *\fItargets\fP, int \fIcount\fP,
XtSelectionCallbackProc \fIcallback\fP,
XtPointer *\fIclient_data\fP, Time \fItime\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIcallback\fP 1i
Specifies the callback procedure that is to be called when the selection value has been obtained.
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies the argument that is to be passed to the specified procedure
when it is called.
.IP \fIclient_data\fP 1i
Specifies the client data (one for each target type)
that is passed to the callback procedure when it is called for that target.
.IP \fIcount\fP 1i
Specifies the length of the targets and client_data lists.
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Specifies the particular selection desired (that is, primary or secondary).
.IP \fItarget\fP 1i
Specifies the type of the information that is needed about the selection.
.IP \fItargets\fP 1i
Specifies the types of information that is needed about the selection.
.IP \fItime\fP 1i
Specifies the timestamp that indicates when the selection value is desired.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the widget that is making the request.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B XtGetSelectionValue
function requests the value of the selection that has been converted to
the target type.
The specified callback will be called some time after
.B XtGetSelectionValue
is called;
in fact, it may be called before or after
.B XtGetSelectionValue
returns.
.LP
The
.B XtGetSelectionValues
function is similar to
.B XtGetSelectionValue
except that it takes a list of target types and a list of client data
and obtains the current value of the selection converted to each of the targets.
The effect is as if each target were specified in a separate call to
.BR XtGetSelectionValue .
The callback is called once with the corresponding client data for each target.
.B XtGetSelectionValues
does guarantee that all the conversions will use the same selection value
because the ownership of the selection cannot change in the middle of the list,
as would be when calling
.B XtGetSelectionValue
repeatedly.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtAppGetSelectionTimeout(__libmansuffix__),
XtOwnSelection(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
