.\" Copyright (c) 1993, 1994  X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
.\" copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
.\" to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
.\" the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
.\" and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
.\" Software furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
.\" WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
.\" SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall not
.\" be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
.\" dealing in this Software without prior written authorization from the
.\" X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtGet-Selection-Request wid-get
.na
.TH XtGetSelectionRequest __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtGetSelectionRequest \- retrieve the event that triggered the XtConvertSelectionProc
.SH SYNTAX
#include <X11/Intrinsic.h>
.HP
XSelectionRequestEvent* XtGetSelectionRequest(Widget \fIw\fP, Atom
\fIselection\fP, XtRequestId \fIrequest_id\fP);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the widget.
.IP \fIselection\fP 1i
Specifies the selection being processed.
.IP \fIrequest_id\fP 1i
Specifies the requestor id in the case of incremental selections, or
NULL in the case of atomic transfers.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B XtGetSelectionRequest
may only be called from within an
.B XtConvertSelectionProc
procedure and returns a pointer to the
.B SelectionRequest
event that caused the conversion procedure to be invoked.
\fIRequest_id\fP
specifies a unique id for the individual request in the case that
multiple incremental transfers are outstanding.
For atomic transfers,
\fIrequest_id\fP must be specified as NULL. If no
.B SelectionRequest
event is being processed for the specified \fIwidget\fP, \fIselection\fP,
and \fIrequest_id\fP,
.B XtGetSelectionRequest
returns NULL.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
