.\" Copyright 1993 X Consortium
.\"
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
.\" a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
.\" "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
.\" without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
.\" distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
.\" permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
.\" the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
.\" included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
.\" EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
.\" IN NO EVENT SHALL THE X CONSORTIUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR
.\" OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
.\" OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" Except as contained in this notice, the name of the X Consortium shall
.\" not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or
.\" other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
.\" from the X Consortium.
.\"
.ds tk X Toolkit
.ds xT X Toolkit Intrinsics \- C Language Interface
.ds xI Intrinsics
.ds xW X Toolkit Athena Widgets \- C Language Interface
.ds xL Xlib \- C Language X Interface
.ds xC Inter-Client Communication Conventions Manual
.ds Rn 3
.ds Vn 2.2
.hw XtQuery-Geometry wid-get
.na
.de Ds
.nf
.\\$1D \\$2 \\$1
.ft CW
.ps \\n(PS
.\".if \\n(VS>=40 .vs \\n(VSu
.\".if \\n(VS<=39 .vs \\n(VSp
..
.de De
.ce 0
.if \\n(BD .DF
.nr BD 0
.in \\n(OIu
.if \\n(TM .ls 2
.sp \\n(DDu
.fi
..
.de IN		\" send an index entry to the stderr
..
.de Pn
.ie t \\$1\fB\^\\$2\^\fR\\$3
.el \\$1\fI\^\\$2\^\fP\\$3
..
.de ZN
.ie t \fB\^\\$1\^\fR\\$2
.el \fI\^\\$1\^\fP\\$2
..
.ny0
.TH XtQueryGeometry __libmansuffix__ __xorgversion__ "XT FUNCTIONS"
.SH NAME
XtQueryGeometry \- query the preferred geometry of a child widget
.SH SYNTAX
.HP
XtGeometryResult XtQueryGeometry(Widget \fIw\fP\^, XtWidgetGeometry
*\fIintended\fP, XtWidgetGeometry *\fIpreferred_return\fP\^);
.SH ARGUMENTS
.IP \fIintended\fP 1i
Specifies any changes the parent plans to make to the child's geometry or
NULL.
.IP \fIpreferred_return\fP 1i
Returns the child widget's preferred geometry.
.IP \fIw\fP 1i
Specifies the widget.
.SH DESCRIPTION
To discover a child's preferred geometry,
the child's parent sets any changes
that it intends to make to the child's geometry in the corresponding fields of
the intended structure, sets the corresponding bits in intended.request_mode,
and calls
.ZN XtQueryGeometry .
.LP
.ZN XtQueryGeometry
clears all bits in the preferred_return->request_mode and checks the
query_geometry field of the specified widget's class record.
If query_geometry is not NULL,
.ZN XtQueryGeometry
calls the query_geometry procedure and passes as arguments the
specified widget, intended, and preferred_return structures.
If the intended argument is NULL,
.ZN XtQueryGeometry
replaces it with a pointer to an
.ZN XtWidgetGeometry
structure with request_mode=0 before calling query_geometry.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
XtConfigureWidget(__libmansuffix__),
XtMakeGeometryRequest(__libmansuffix__)
.br
\fI\*(xT\fP
.br
\fI\*(xL\fP
